Book: Update QObjects chapter to v0.4 (#320)
KDAB/cxx-qt: book/src/qobject/qobject_struct.md

## Requirements
- Like most other CXX-Qt macros, it can only be used from within a [`#[cxx_qt::bridge]`](./bridge-macro.md).
- The `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` macro must be placed on a Rust struct.
- The struct must `impl Default`, so that it can be constructed as part of a QObject.

## Effects
Adding the macro to a Rust struct `MyObject` has a few effects.

However, first it's important to mention that this macro **does not modify the contents of the struct in any way!**
This means you can always rely on the struct to behave like any other Rust struct.
You can use it in normal Rust code, without interacting with Qt in any way.

The macro does multiple other things for you though:
- Generate a C++ QObject subclass that wraps the `MyObject` Rust struct.
- Expose the generated QObject subclass as `qobject::MyObject`. (For details see the [`qobject::T`](./cpp_object.md) page).
- Generate getters/setters for all fields.
- Generate `Q_PROPERTY`s for all fields that are marked as `#[qproperty]`.
- Generate signals if paired with a [`#[cxx_qt::qsignals]` enum](./signals_enum.md).

### `base` attribute
Use the `base` attribute to specify a C++ class that the C++ QObject will inherit from.

> The base class must be a QObject!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base class must inherit from QObject.
```

Author: I considered this phrasing initially as well.
The thing I'm unsure about is whether people will understand that "inherit" is transitively here.
i.e. your base class doesn't have to directly inherit from `QObject`, it just needs to at some point inherit from QObject.

Reviewer: How about:

The base class must inherit from QObject (this can be done indirectly from a base class that inherits QObject).

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_qobject_base}}
      // ...
    }
```

> Also make sure to use the CXX `include!` macro to include the appropriate C++ header for the base class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the CXX `include!` macro to include the appropriate C++ header for the base class:
```

``` rust
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_base_include}}
    }
```

[Full Example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs)

## Properties

> Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]`, this declares which fields will be exposed as `Q_PROPERTY`s on the QObject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]` to be exposed as [`Q_PROPERTY`s](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/properties.html) on the generated QObject:
```

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_macro_code}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.
On The C++ side:

> - setter: `set<Property>` - getter: `<Property>`

Author: ```suggestion
- setter: `set<Property>` - getter: `get<Property>`
```

> - setter: `set<Property>` - getter: `<Property>`

Author: Done

On the Rust side:
- setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>`

> where `<Property>` is the name of the property

Reviewer: The mdBook formatting isn't working well here. Maybe use a 2x2 table (language by setter/getter)?

Author: I've updated this to split it into separate paragraphs, which is hopefully good enough now :)

> These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is called ever time the property is edited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is called every time the property is edited.
```

Author: Done

> These setters and getters assure that the changed setter is called ever time the property is edited.

Reviewer: "changed setter"? Do you mean "changed signal"?

Author: Yup, of course :man_facepalming:

> These setters and getters assure that the changed setter is called ever time the property is edited.

Author: ```suggestion
These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is called ever time the property is edited.
```

Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` remains a normal Rust field.
For convenience, CXX-Qt generates getters and setters on the `qobject::T` for these fields.
These use the convention:
- setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>` - mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`.

> Instead of implementing `Default` by hand, you can of course also use `#[derive(Default)]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of implementing `Default` by hand, you can also use `#[derive(Default)]`.
```
It's not obvious if you're new to Rust :)

[Full Example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs)

### `cxx_type`

You can change the C++ type that your property uses by adding the `cxx_type` attribute to the `#[qproperty]` macro.

This is especially useful if your property type is an opaque C++ type and can't be owned directly by Rust.
Then it might be necessary to wrap it in a [cxx::UniquePtr](https://docs.rs/cxx/latest/cxx/struct.UniquePtr.html).

However, you may still want your `Q_PROPERTY` to use the opaque type directly.
This can easily be achieved by using `cxx_type`.

``` rust,noplayground
#[cxx_qt::qobject]
struct MyStruct {

>   #[qproperty(cxx_type="Opaque")]
>   my_property: cxx::UniquePtr<Opaque>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #[qproperty(cxx_type="OpaqueExampleType")]
  my_property: cxx::UniquePtr<OpaqueExampleType>
```

I thought `Opaque` was literally referring to a specific type at first.

>   #[qproperty(cxx_type="Opaque")]
>   my_property: cxx::UniquePtr<Opaque>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #[qproperty(cxx_type="OpaqueExampleType")]
  my_property: cxx::UniquePtr<OpaqueExampleType>
```

I thought `Opaque` was literally referring to a specific type at first.

}
```
In this case, CXX-Qt will automatically convert any references to the `std::unique_ptr<Opaque>` to references to `Opaque`.

> For details see the [page on type conversions](../concepts/type-conversions.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see the [page on type conversions](../concepts/type-conversions.md).
```

## Invokables

Invokables are functions that are registered by with the Qt meta-object system using [`Q_INVOKABLE`](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qobject.html#Q_INVOKABLE).

> In practice this most importantly means they can be called from QML, as well as C++.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows them to be called from QML and JavaScript (running in a [QJSEngine](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qjsengine.html)), in addition to C++ and Rust.
```

CXX-Qt allows you to define invokables using Rust code.
This way you can easily add a Rust-powered backend to your QML frontend.

Invokables, by definition, must be defined on a C++ class however.
That's where the QObject subclass generated by `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` comes into play.
For details on this, see the [`qobject::T` page](./cpp_object.md).

The important part for invokables is that they need to be implemented on the `qobject::T`, not `T`.

> Therefore they have access to both C++ and Rust methods. Also CXX-Qt adds wrapper code around your invokables to automatically perform any conversion between the [C++ and Rust types](../concepts/types.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore they have access to both C++ and Rust methods. CXX-Qt adds wrapper code around your invokables to automatically convert between the [C++ and Rust types](../concepts/types.md).
```

To mark a method as invokable simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method. This then causes the method to be exposed on the C++ class.

> `Q_INVOKABLE` will also be added to the definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.

Reviewer: This is a bit unclear. Is it not exposed to C++ (without `Q_INVOKABLE`) if `#[qinvokable]` isn't used?

Reviewer: Oh, you answer this below :)

To mark a method as invokable simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method. This then causes the method to be exposed on the C++ class.
`Q_INVOKABLE` will also be added to the definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs:book_impl_qobject}}
```

Note that an Invokable may only use `self: Pin<&mut Self>` or `&self` as self types.
It is not possible to have a `self`, or `&mut self` invokable, as that may move around the QObject, which C++ can't handle.
Furthermore, invokables are restricted to only use types that are compatible with CXX.

It is also possible to define methods in the `impl qobject::T` block that are *not* marked as `#[qinvokable]`.
These methods won't be available from C++ or QML.
But as they still use the QObject as the self type they can still access the QObject features like emitting signals, changing properties, etc.
However, they are still normal Rust functions.
Therefore, they aren't restricted to CXX-compatible types.

[Full example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs)

> ## Private Methods and Fields

Reviewer 2: should you mention in this section about the `field` / `field_mut` / `set_field` ? and how `field_mut` is safe as it's not a qproperty ?

Author: I've moved all information about the non-property fields into the `Private Methods and Fields` section and linked to it from the properties section.

- The struct must `impl Default`, so that it can be constructed as part of a QObject.

## Effects
Adding the macro to a Rust struct `MyObject` has a few effects.

However, first it's important to mention that this macro **does not modify the contents of the struct in any way!**
This means you can always rely on the struct to behave like any other Rust struct.
You can use it in normal Rust code, without interacting with Qt in any way.

The macro does multiple other things for you though:
- Generate a C++ QObject subclass that wraps the `MyObject` Rust struct.
- Expose the generated QObject subclass to Rust as [`qobject::MyObject`](./generated-qobject.md)
- Generate getters/setters for all fields.
- Generate `Q_PROPERTY`s for all fields that are marked as `#[qproperty]`.
- Generate signals if paired with a [`#[cxx_qt::qsignals]` enum](./signals_enum.md).

### `base` attribute
Use the `base` attribute to specify a C++ class that the C++ QObject will inherit from.
The base class must inherit from QObject (directly or indirectly).

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_qobject_base}}
      // ...
    }

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe out of scope for this PR, but I think it would be clearer to have an example for this that inherits from some Qt class rather than our own C++ class.

Reviewer 2: Hopefully with 0.5 we can derive straight from a QAbstractListModel .. :-) If we can solve #330 (protected methods) #291 (QHash<K, V>).

We could change to another class but probably not worth it as hopefully this will change soon, as other classes may also need some of these improvements.

Use the CXX `include!` macro to include the appropriate C++ header for the base class:
``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_base_include}}
    }
```

[Full Example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs)

## Properties

Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]` to be exposed as [`Q_PROPERTY`s](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/properties.html) on the generated QObject:

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_macro_code}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.

On The C++ side:
- setter: `set<Property>` - getter: `get<Property>`

On the Rust side:
- setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>`

where `<Property>` is the name of the property.

> These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is called every time the property is edited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is emitted every time the property is edited.
```

> Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` won't be accessible from C++.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` won't be accessible from C++, but it will be accessible from Rust.
```

> See the [Private fields section](#privaet-methods-and-fields)

Reviewer 2: typo in this link so it doesn't work

Author: Fixed

}
```
In this case, CXX-Qt will automatically convert any references to the `std::unique_ptr<OpaqueExampleType>` to references to `OpaqueExampleType`.

For details, see the [page on type conversions](../concepts/type-conversions.md).

## Invokables

Invokables are functions that are registered with the Qt meta-object system using [`Q_INVOKABLE`](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qobject.html#Q_INVOKABLE).
This allows them to be called from QML and JavaScript (running in a [QJSEngine](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qjsengine.html)), in addition to C++ and Rust.

CXX-Qt allows you to define invokables using Rust code.
This way you can easily add a Rust-powered backend to your QML frontend.

Invokables, by definition, must be defined on a C++ class however.
This is where the QObject subclass generated by `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` comes into play.
For details on this, see the [`qobject::T` page](./generated-qobject.md).

The important part for invokables is that they need to be implemented on the `qobject::T`, not `T`.
Therefore they have access to both C++ and Rust methods. CXX-Qt adds wrapper code around your invokables to automatically convert between the [C++ and Rust types](../concepts/types.md).

> To mark a method as invokable simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method. This then causes the method to be exposed on the C++ class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mark a method as invokable simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method to tell CXX-Qt to expose the method on the generated C++ class.
```

> `Q_INVOKABLE` will also be added to the definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Q_INVOKABLE` will be added to the C++ definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.
```

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs:book_impl_qobject}}
```

Note that an Invokable may only use `self: Pin<&mut Self>` or `&self` as self types.

> It is not possible to have a `self`, or `&mut self` invokable, as that may move around the QObject, which C++ can't handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to have a `self`, or `&mut self` invokable, as that may move the QObject in memory, which C++ can't handle.
```

Furthermore, invokables are restricted to only use types that are compatible with CXX.

It is also possible to define methods in the `impl qobject::T` block that are *not* marked as `#[qinvokable]`.
These methods won't be available from C++ or QML.

> But as they still use the QObject as the self type they can still access the QObject features like emitting signals, changing properties, etc.
> However, they are still normal Rust functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But they can still access the QObject features like emitting signals and changing properties by accessing `Pin <&mut Self>`.
However, they are still normal Rust functions.
```

Therefore, they aren't restricted to CXX-compatible types.

[Full example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs)

## Private Methods and Fields

Fields within your `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` struct that aren't tagged as `#[qproperty]` are not exposed as properties to Qt. These can be considered as "private to Rust" fields, and are useful for storing channels for threading or internal information for the QObject.
Because they aren't available from C++, they also don't have any special type requirements and can be any Rust type.
For convenience, CXX-Qt generates getters and setters on the `qobject::T` for these fields.

These use the convention:
- setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>` - mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`.

In comparison to properties, CXX-Qt generates a mutable accessor to the field.
Because the field doesn't correspond to a property, no changed signal has to be emitted and therefore the field can be mutated freely.

Methods implemented using `impl T` (and not `impl qobject::T`) are just normal Rust member methods.

> Therefore they do not have access to any C++ or QObject functionality (e.g. emitting Signals, changing properties, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore they do not have access to any C++ or QObject functionality (e.g. emitting signals, changing properties, etc.)
```

- Generate signals if paired with a [`#[cxx_qt::qsignals]` enum](./signals_enum.md).

### `base` attribute
Use the `base` attribute to specify a C++ class that the C++ QObject will inherit from.
The base class must inherit from QObject (directly or indirectly).

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_qobject_base}}
      // ...
    }
```

Use the CXX `include!` macro to include the appropriate C++ header for the base class:
``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_base_include}}
    }
```

[Full Example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs)

## Properties

Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]` to be exposed as [`Q_PROPERTY`s](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/properties.html) on the generated QObject:

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_macro_code}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

> For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.

Reviewer: What exactly is the name of the generated signal? A user would need to know this to make connections to it.

Reviewer 2: If it's `prop` it's then `propChanged` like you would in C++, we might allow you to choose this in future releases with a macro attribute.

Reviewer: Okay. This should be documented.

Reviewer 2: Done

> On The C++ side:
> - setter: `set<Property>` - getter: `get<Property>`
> 
> On the Rust side:
> - setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On The C++ side:
  * setter: `set<Property>`
  * getter: `get<Property>`

On the Rust side:
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
 * getter: `<Property>`
```

Reviewer 2: Done

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_properties_struct}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.

On The C++ side:
  * setter: `set<Property>`
  * getter: `get<Property>`

On the Rust side:
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
  * getter: `<Property>`

where `<Property>` is the name of the property.

These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is emitted every time the property is edited.

Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` won't be accessible from C++, but it will be accessible from Rust.
See the [Private fields section](#private-methods-and-fields)

Then `Default` needs to be implemented for the struct either by hand or you can of course also use `#[derive(Default)]`.

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_properties_default}}

> ```

Reviewer: This is out of place in the section about properties. How about moving this to a new section?

Reviewer 2: Potentially, it's related to properties in that when you define a property you have to give it a default though, so the new section shouldn't be far away...

Reviewer 2: Done

Defining QObjects is at the heart of CXX-Qt.
Therefore `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` can be considered the most important macro in CXX-Qt.

## Requirements
- Like most other CXX-Qt macros, it can only be used from within a [`#[cxx_qt::bridge]`](./bridge-macro.md).
- The `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` macro must be placed on a Rust struct.
- The struct must `impl Default`, so that it can be constructed as part of a QObject.

## Effects
Adding the macro to a Rust struct `MyObject` has a few effects.

However, first it's important to mention that this macro **does not modify the contents of the struct in any way!**
This means you can always rely on the struct to behave like any other Rust struct.
You can use it in normal Rust code, without interacting with Qt in any way.

The macro does multiple other things for you though:
- Generate a C++ QObject subclass that wraps the `MyObject` Rust struct.
- Expose the generated QObject subclass to Rust as [`qobject::MyObject`](./generated-qobject.md)
- Generate getters/setters for all fields.
- Generate `Q_PROPERTY`s for all fields that are marked as `#[qproperty]`.
- Generate signals if paired with a [`#[cxx_qt::qsignals]` enum](./signals_enum.md).

> ### `base` attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `base` attribute
```

inconsistent section title sizes

Reviewer 2: done

> Use the `base` attribute to specify a C++ class that the C++ QObject will inherit from.
> The base class must inherit from QObject (directly or indirectly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `base` attribute to specify a C++ class that the C++ QObject will inherit from.
The base class must inherit from QObject (directly or indirectly). If you do not specify a base attribute, it will inherit directly from QObject.
```

It's not clear that this is optional.

Reviewer 2: done

## Properties

Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]` to be exposed as [`Q_PROPERTY`s](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/properties.html) on the generated QObject:

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_properties_struct}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.

On The C++ side:
  * setter: `set<Property>`
  * getter: `get<Property>`
  * changed: `<Property>Changed`

On the Rust side:
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
  * getter: `<Property>`
  * changed: `<Property>_changed`

where `<Property>` is the name of the property.

These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is emitted every time the property is edited.

Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` won't be accessible from C++, but it will be accessible from Rust.
See the [Private fields section](#private-methods-and-fields)

> ## Default

Reviewer: This should be moved, maybe to the top? Currently it's interrupting the Properties section, of which `cxx_type` should be a subsection

Reviewer 2: Hmm then you see values before we have introduced properties, maybe it goes after the `cxx_type` bit ? And at the top where it says it must be implemented could link to the section

Reviewer 2: done

> The `Default` needs to be implemented for the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct either by hand or by using derive `#[derive(Default)]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Default` trait](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/default/trait.Default.html) needs to be implemented for the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct either by hand or by using the derive macro `#[derive(Default)]`.
```

Reviewer 2: done

CXX-Qt allows you to define invokables using Rust code.
This way you can easily add a Rust-powered backend to your QML frontend.

Invokables, by definition, must be defined on a C++ class however.
This is where the QObject subclass generated by `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` comes into play.
For details on this, see the [`qobject::T` page](./generated-qobject.md).

The important part for invokables is that they need to be implemented on the `qobject::T`, not `T`.
Therefore they have access to both C++ and Rust methods. CXX-Qt adds wrapper code around your invokables to automatically convert between the [C++ and Rust types](../concepts/types.md).

To mark a method as invokable, simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method. This tells CXX-Qt to expose the method on the generated C++ class.
`Q_INVOKABLE` will be added to the C++ definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs:book_impl_qobject}}
```

Note that an Invokable may only use `self: Pin<&mut Self>` or `&self` as self types.

> It is not possible to have a `self`, or `&mut self` invokable, as that may move the QObject in memory, which C++ can't handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to have a `self`, or `&mut self` invokable, as that may move the QObject in memory, which would invalidate C++ pointers and references to the QObject.
```

"can't handle" doesn't really explain the issue

Reviewer 2: done

Furthermore, invokables are restricted to only use types that are compatible with CXX.

It is also possible to define methods in the `impl qobject::T` block that are *not* marked as `#[qinvokable]`.
These methods won't be available from C++ or QML.
But they can still access the QObject features like emitting signals and changing properties by accessing `Pin <&mut Self>`.

> However, they are still normal Rust functions.
> Therefore, they aren't restricted to CXX-compatible types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are normal Rust methods, so they aren't restricted to CXX-compatible types.
```

Reviewer 2: done

[Full example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs)

## Private Methods and Fields

Fields within your `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` struct that aren't tagged as `#[qproperty]` are not exposed as properties to Qt. These can be considered as "private to Rust" fields, and are useful for storing channels for threading or internal information for the QObject.
Because they aren't available from C++, they also don't have any special type requirements and can be any Rust type.
For convenience, CXX-Qt generates getters and setters on the `qobject::T` for these fields.

These use the convention:

> - setter: `set_<Property>` - getter: `<Property>` - mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
  * getter: `<Property>`
  * mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`.
```

In comparison to properties, CXX-Qt generates a mutable accessor to the field.
Because the field doesn't correspond to a property, no changed signal has to be emitted and therefore the field can be mutated freely.

Methods implemented using `impl T` (and not `impl qobject::T`) are just normal Rust member methods.
Therefore they do not have access to any C++ or QObject functionality (e.g. emitting signals, changing properties, etc.)

> You will usually only need to use `impl T` if you want to also use your struct as a normal Rust struct, that is not wrapped in a QObject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will usually only need to use `impl T` if you want to also use your struct as a normal Rust struct that is not wrapped in a QObject.
```

The base class must inherit from QObject (directly or indirectly). If you do not specify a base attribute, it will inherit directly from QObject.

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_qobject_base}}
      // ...
    }
```

Use the CXX `include!` macro to include the appropriate C++ header for the base class:
``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs:book_base_include}}
    }
```

[Full Example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/custom_base_class.rs)

## Properties

Fields within the `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` marked struct can be tagged with `#[qproperty]` to be exposed as [`Q_PROPERTY`s](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/properties.html) on the generated QObject:

```rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/properties.rs:book_properties_struct}}
```

Any type that CXX supports may be marked as a `#[qproperty]`.
See the [Types page](../concepts/types.md) for a list of supported types.

For every `#[qproperty]`, CXX-Qt will generate setters and getters, as well as a "changed" signal.

> On The C++ side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the C++ side:
```
nit

Reviewer 2: done

  * setter: `set<Property>`
  * getter: `get<Property>`
  * changed: `<Property>Changed`

On the Rust side:
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
  * getter: `<Property>`
  * changed: `<Property>_changed`

where `<Property>` is the name of the property.

These setters and getters assure that the changed signal is emitted every time the property is edited.

Any field that's not marked as `#[qproperty]` won't be accessible from C++, but it will be accessible from Rust.
See the [Private fields section](#private-methods-and-fields)

### `cxx_type`

You can change the C++ type that your property uses by adding the `cxx_type` attribute to the `#[qproperty]` macro.

This is especially useful if your property type is an opaque C++ type and can't be owned directly by Rust.
Then it might be necessary to wrap it in a [cxx::UniquePtr](https://docs.rs/cxx/latest/cxx/struct.UniquePtr.html).

However, you may still want your `Q_PROPERTY` to use the opaque type directly.
This can easily be achieved by using `cxx_type`.

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
#[cxx_qt::qobject]
struct MyStruct {
  #[qproperty(cxx_type="OpaqueExampleType")]
  my_property: cxx::UniquePtr<OpaqueExampleType>
}
```

> In this case, CXX-Qt will automatically convert any references to the `std::unique_ptr<OpaqueExampleType>` to references to `OpaqueExampleType`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, CXX-Qt will automatically conver the `std::unique_ptr<OpaqueExampleType>` to `OpaqueExampleType`.
```

This could be confused with Rust and/or C++ references (which would be odd on a unique_ptr).

Reviewer 2: done

This allows them to be called from QML and JavaScript (running in a [QJSEngine](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qjsengine.html)), in addition to C++ and Rust.

CXX-Qt allows you to define invokables using Rust code.
This way you can easily add a Rust-powered backend to your QML frontend.

Invokables, by definition, must be defined on a C++ class however.
This is where the QObject subclass generated by `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` comes into play.
For details on this, see the [`qobject::T` page](./generated-qobject.md).

The important part for invokables is that they need to be implemented on the `qobject::T`, not `T`.
Therefore they have access to both C++ and Rust methods. CXX-Qt adds wrapper code around your invokables to automatically convert between the [C++ and Rust types](../concepts/types.md).

To mark a method as invokable, simply add the `#[qinvokable]` attribute to the Rust method. This tells CXX-Qt to expose the method on the generated C++ class.
`Q_INVOKABLE` will be added to the C++ definition of the method, allowing QML to call the invokable.

``` rust,ignore,noplayground
{{#include ../../../examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs:book_impl_qobject}}
```

> Note that an Invokable may only use `self: Pin<&mut Self>` or `&self` as self types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that an invokable may only use `self: Pin<&mut Self>` or `&self` as self types.
```

Reviewer 2: done

Furthermore, invokables are restricted to only use types that are compatible with CXX.

It is also possible to define methods in the `impl qobject::T` block that are *not* marked as `#[qinvokable]`.
These methods won't be available from C++ or QML.
But they can still access the QObject features like emitting signals and changing properties by accessing `Pin <&mut Self>`.
These are normal Rust methods, so they aren't restricted to CXX-compatible types.

[Full example](https://github.com/KDAB/cxx-qt/blob/main/examples/qml_features/rust/src/invokables.rs)

## Private Methods and Fields

Fields within your `#[cxx_qt::qobject]` struct that aren't tagged as `#[qproperty]` are not exposed as properties to Qt. These can be considered as "private to Rust" fields, and are useful for storing channels for threading or internal information for the QObject.
Because they aren't available from C++, they also don't have any special type requirements and can be any Rust type.
For convenience, CXX-Qt generates getters and setters on the `qobject::T` for these fields.

These use the convention:
  * setter: `set_<Property>`
  * getter: `<Property>`

>   * mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * mutable accessor: `<Property>_mut`
```

super nit :P

Reviewer 2: done
